IBX-11053: Describe restricting access to form submissions (#3171)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/permissions/custom_policies.md

For a `PolicyProvider` to be active, you have to register it in the `src/Kernel.php`:

``` php hl_lines="20 23"

> [[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 0, 6) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 7, 23) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 24, 28) =]]

Reviewer: Friendly reminder that you could have used [`include_code`](https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/blob/5.0/main.py#L57), which is simpler to work with.

But it can stay as is 😉 

BTW good idea with the highlights!

Author: Include code was announced after I compelted the imports. Will do next time.

```php
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Controller/CustomController.php') =]]
```

## Restrict access to form submissions

By default, access to a [Form content item](form_builder_guide.md#forms-management) is controlled by the `content/read` policy.

> As a result, all users who can view a form in the Admin UI can also [access](form_builder_guide.md#view-results) its [**Submissions** tab](back_office_tabs.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, all users who can view a form in the back office can also [access](form_builder_guide.md#view-results) its [**Submissions** tab](back_office_tabs.md).
```

However, form submissions may require stricter access control than the form itself, for example, to conform with GDPR regulations.
To tackle this, you must separate the permissions by introducing a dedicated policy that manages access to form submission:

- define a custom policy: `form/read_submissions`

> - enforce the policy in the backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- enforce the policy on the PHP API level
```

> - enforce the policy in the Admin UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- enforce the policy in the back office
```

We want to use back office instead of Admin UI, there's even a related Vale rule: https://github.com/ibexa/vale-styles/blob/f2178a9e23398f2021624976f78e0939ff6e1df6/styles/Ibexa/DomainTerms.yml#L5

With this setup, users with `content/read` permission can view the form, but cannot see the **Submissions** tab, while users with `form/read_submissions` can access the submissions, export and manage submitted data (depending on other permissions).

!!! note "Implementation notes"
    - This implementation uses service decoration and extends internal classes.
    - Some internal methods are not publicly reusable, which may require additional calls, for example, `gateway->loadById($id)` or minor workarounds.
    - When upgrading, review these customizations to ensure compatibility with internal API changes.
    

### Define custom policy

First, create the `FormPolicyProvider.php` policy provider that registers the new `form` module and the `read_submissions` function by injecting the custom permission into the configuration tree:

```php hl_lines="14-18 26"
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Security/FormPolicyProvider.php') =]]
```

> Next, extract the [translations](#translations) to the `translations/forms.en.xlf` file.

Reviewer: We already have the example values included in this PR (forms.en.yaml), why not include it here?

Author: I left it out on purpose, because the how-to above explains how one can create if from the labels embedded within PHP, which seemed like a cleaner solution for me.

Reviewer: Ok, nice! I've missread that part somehow

Then, register the provider in the Kernel by overriding the `build()` method.
Unlike standard Symfony runtime services, policy providers must be registered explicitly in the application kernel, because they are consumed during the container compilation phase.

> ``` php hl_lines="21 24"

Reviewer: Wrong highlight

[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 0, 7) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 8, 18) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 19, 24) =]][[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Kernel.php', 25, 28) =]]
```

> Finally, add a service definition to `config/services.yaml`...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add a service definition to `config/services.yaml`:
```

``` yaml
services:
    # …
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/config/append_to_services.yaml', 13, 16) =]]
```

> ...and in `src/Resources/config/policies.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, add the policy definition  in `src/Resources/config/policies.yaml`:
```
I'm suggesting changes here because the current structure makes it sound as if you define services in `policies.yaml` - but it's not a service definition

``` yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Resources/config/policies.yaml', 3, 5) =]]
```

This way, after you clean the cache, the new policy becomes available when you [edit the policies assigned to a Role](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/permission_management/work_with_permissions/).

> ### Secure backend access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Secure access on PHP API level
```

> To enforce the policy in the backend, decorate the form submission service to enforce permission checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enforce the policy on the PHP API level, decorate the form submission service to enforce permission checks.
```

In `src/Security`, create the `FormSubmissionServiceDecorator.php` file:

> ```php hl_lines="19 33 40 41 43"

Reviewer: Highlights are off

[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/src/Security/Form/FormSubmissionServiceDecorator.php') =]]
```

!!! note "Duplicate method calls"

    To perform a permission check for `$content`, it is fetched by `gateway->loadById($id)`.
    After permission is checked, `loadById($id)` is called again to prevent having to copy private method implementations into the decorator.

Then, add a service definition to `config/services.yaml`:

``` yaml
services:
    # …
[[= include_file('code_samples/back_office/limitation/config/append_to_services.yaml', 23, 27) =]]
```

This way, users can't access the submission data unless they have the `form/read_submissions` policy added to their Role.

> ### Secure Admin UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Secure back office access
```

> This way, users can't access the submission data unless they have the `form/read_submissions` policy added to their Role.

Reviewer: Is Vale right here and in line 351?

To enforce the policy in the Admin UI, decorate the **Submissions** tab to hide it when the user lacks permission.
In `src/Security`, create the `FormSubmissionsTabDecorator.php` file:

> ```php hl_lines="19 21 33 61 62"

Reviewer: highlights are off
